docs/en/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.md, before:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
# Get Clipboard

Get the content of the system clipboard
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
driver.getClipboard(ClipboardContentType.PLAINTEXT); // get plaintext
driver.getClipboardText();

```

```python
# Python
self.driver.get_clipboard()
self.driver.get_clipboard_text()

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.getClipboard();

// wd example
await driver.getClipboard();

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
get_clipboard

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.get_clipboard

```

```php
# PHP
// PHP Code here

```

```csharp
// C#
// CSharp Code here

```

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Description

Get the content of the system clipboard


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | None | None | None |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | None | None | None |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebElement.html#click--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.clipboard.Clipboard.get_clipboard) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [Android](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Android/Device#get_clipboard-instance_method) [iOS](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Ios/Device#get_clipboard-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/get_clipboard`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| contentType | `string` | The type of the content to get. Plaintext, Image, URL. Android supports only plaintext. |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Response

Clipboard content as base64-encoded string or an empty string if the clipboard is empty (`string`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## See Also

Commit message:

docs: Update generated docs [ci skip] (#14573)
Co-authored-by: runner <runner@Mac-1581.local>

docs/en/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.md, after:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
# Get Clipboard

Get the content of the system clipboard
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
driver.getClipboard(ClipboardContentType.PLAINTEXT); // get plaintext
driver.getClipboardText();

```

```python
# Python
self.driver.get_clipboard()
self.driver.get_clipboard_text()

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.getClipboard();

// wd example
await driver.getClipboard();

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
get_clipboard

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.get_clipboard

```

```php
# PHP
// PHP Code here

```

```csharp
// C#
// CSharp Code here

```

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Description

Get the content of the system clipboard

(For iOS real devices) Apple security preferences require the WebDriverAgentRunner application to be in [foreground](https://github.com/appium/WebDriverAgent/issues/330) in order to be able to receive the system clipboard content. Otherwise an empty string is always returned. Consider using [Activate App](/docs/en/commands/device/app/activate-app.md) and [Background App](/docs/en/commands/device/app/background-app.md) to change the foreground application.


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | None | None | None |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | None | None | None |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebElement.html#click--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.clipboard.Clipboard.get_clipboard) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [Android](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Android/Device#get_clipboard-instance_method) [iOS](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Ios/Device#get_clipboard-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/get_clipboard`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| contentType | `string` | The type of the content to get. Plaintext, Image, URL. Android supports only plaintext. |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
### Response

Clipboard content as base64-encoded string or an empty string if the clipboard is empty (`string`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/get-clipboard.yml)
## See Also
