docs/en/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.md, before:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
# Set Clipboard

Set the content of the system clipboard
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
// base64Content is Base64-encoded content
driver.setClipboard("label", ClipboardContentType.PLAINTEXT, base64Content);
driver.setClipboardText("happy testing");

```

```python
# Python
self.driver.set_clipboard('happy testing')
self.driver.set_clipboard_text('happy testing')

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.setClipboard('happy testing', 'plaintext')

// wd example
await driver.setClipboard('happy testing', 'plaintext')

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
set_clipboard content: 'happy testing'

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.set_clipboard content: 'happy testing'

```

```csharp
// C#
// CSharp Code here

```

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Description

Set the content of the system clipboard


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | None | None | None |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | None | None | None |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebElement.html#click--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.clipboard.Clipboard.get_clipboard) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [iOS](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Ios/Device#set_clipboard-instance_method) [Android](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Android/Device#set_clipboard-instance_method) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/set_clipboard`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| content | `String` | The actual base64 encoded clipboard content. |
| contentType | `string` | The type of the content to get. Plaintext, Image, URL. Android supports only plaintext. |
| label | `string` | Clipboard data label for Android. |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Response

Response from Appium server (`string`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## See Also

Commit message:

docs: update clipboard description from the master branch (#16559)

docs/en/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.md, after:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
# Set Clipboard

Set the content of the system clipboard
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
// base64Content is Base64-encoded content
driver.setClipboard("label", ClipboardContentType.PLAINTEXT, base64Content);
driver.setClipboardText("happy testing");

```

```python
# Python
self.driver.set_clipboard('happy testing')
self.driver.set_clipboard_text('happy testing')

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.setClipboard('happy testing', 'plaintext')

// wd example
await driver.setClipboard('happy testing', 'plaintext')

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
set_clipboard content: 'happy testing'

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.set_clipboard content: 'happy testing'

```

```csharp
// C#
// CSharp Code here

```

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Description

Set the content of the system clipboard
(For iOS 15+ real devices) Apple security preferences require the WebDriverAgentRunner application to be in [foreground](https://github.com/appium/appium/issues/16526) in order to set the system clipboard content. Consider using [Activate App](/docs/en/commands/device/app/activate-app.md) and [Background App](/docs/en/commands/device/app/background-app.md) to change the foreground application. Activate App command cannot launch the WebDriverAgent properly on some environments. It depends on XCTest framework by Apple. Then, you should launch the WebDriverAgent using its Springboard's application icon. Follow the example below.
1. Open Springboard, `@driver.activate_app 'com.apple.springboard'`. 2. Find the WDA icon with `@driver.find_element :accessibility_id, 'WebDriverAgentRunner-Runner'` (It should be visible on the screen) and click it. 3. Call the get clipboard API. 4. Open the application under test with the [Activate App](/docs/en/commands/device/app/activate-app.md).

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | None | None | None |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | None | None | None |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/WebElement.html#click--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.clipboard.Clipboard.get_clipboard) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [iOS](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Ios/Device#set_clipboard-instance_method) [Android](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Android/Device#set_clipboard-instance_method) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| None | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/set_clipboard`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| content | `String` | The actual base64 encoded clipboard content. |
| contentType | `string` | The type of the content to get. Plaintext, Image, URL. Android supports only plaintext. |
| label | `string` | Clipboard data label for Android. |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
### Response

Response from Appium server (`string`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/clipboard/set-clipboard.yml)
## See Also
