docs/en/commands/device/files/push-file.md, before:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
# Push File

Place a file onto the device in a particular place
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
driver.pushFile("/path/to/device/foo.bar", new File("/Users/johndoe/files/foo.bar"));

```

```python
# Python
self.driver.push_file('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=');

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
let data = new Buffer("Hello World").toString('base64');
driver.pushFile('/data/local/tmp/file.txt', data);

// wd example
await driver.pushFileToDevice('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=');

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
push_file('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=')

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.push_file('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=')

```

```php
# PHP
$driver->pushFile('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=');

```

```csharp
// C#
driver.PushFile("/path/to/device/foo.bar", new FileInfo("/Users/johndoe/files/foo.bar"))

```


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | 8.0 to 9.3 | All | All |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | 4.3+ | All | All |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/java-client/io/appium/java_client/android/PushesFiles.html#pushFile-java.lang.String-java.io.File-) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.remote_fs.RemoteFS.push_file) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/blob/master/lib/commands.js#L2640) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [www.rubydoc.info](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Device#push_file-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/blob/master/src/Appium.Net/Appium/AppiumDriver.cs) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/push_file`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| path | `string` | Path to install the data to |
| data | `string` | Contents of file in base64 |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Response

null

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## See Also

* [JSONWP Specification](https://github.com/appium/appium-base-driver/blob/master/lib/protocol/routes.js#L501)

Commit message:

docs: Update generated docs [ci skip] (#14485)
Co-authored-by: runner <runner@Mac-1730.local>

docs/en/commands/device/files/push-file.md, after:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
# Push File

Place a file onto the device in a particular place
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
driver.pushFile("/path/to/device/foo.bar", new File("/Users/johndoe/files/foo.bar"));

```

```python
# Python
dest_path = '/data/local/tmp/test_push_file.txt'
data = bytes('This is the contents of the file to push to the device.', 'utf-8')
self.driver.push_file(dest_path, base64.b64encode(data).decode('utf-8'))

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
let data = new Buffer("Hello World").toString('base64');
driver.pushFile('/data/local/tmp/file.txt', data);

// wd example
await driver.pushFileToDevice('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=');

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
push_file('/path/to/device/foo.bar', File.read('path/to/file.png'))

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.push_file('/path/to/device/foo.bar', File.read('path/to/file.png'))

```

```php
# PHP
$driver->pushFile('/path/to/device/foo.bar', 'QXJlIHlvdXIgYmVlcnMgb2theT8=');

```

```csharp
// C#
driver.PushFile("/path/to/device/foo.bar", new FileInfo("/Users/johndoe/files/foo.bar"))

```


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | 8.0 to 9.3 | All | All |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | 4.3+ | All | All |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | None | None | None |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | None | None | None |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/java-client/io/appium/java_client/android/PushesFiles.html#pushFile-java.lang.String-java.io.File-) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [appium.github.io](https://appium.github.io/python-client-sphinx/webdriver.extensions.html#webdriver.extensions.remote_fs.RemoteFS.push_file) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/blob/master/lib/commands.js#L2640) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [www.rubydoc.info](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib_core/Appium/Core/Device#push_file-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/blob/master/src/Appium.Net/Appium/AppiumDriver.cs) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Endpoint

`POST /session/:session_id/appium/device/push_file`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### JSON Parameters

|name|type|description|
|----|----|-----------|
| path | `string` | Path to install the data to |
| data | `string` | Contents of file in base64 |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
### Response

null

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/device/files/push-file.yml)
## See Also

* [JSONWP Specification](https://github.com/appium/appium-base-driver/blob/master/lib/protocol/routes.js#L501)
