docs/en/advanced-concepts/memory-collection.md, before:

## Memory Collection

Since Node v. 12 it is possible to collect the dumps of Appium's memory usage to be analyzed for problems.
This is _extremely_ useful for finding memory leaks.


### Creating a dump file

To create a dump file at any given time, add the following command line parameter to `node` process, which executes the appium.js script:

```
--heapsnapshot-signal=&lt;signal&gt;
```

where `signal` can be one of available custom signals, for example `SIGUSR2`. Then you will be able to

```
kill -SIGUSR2 &lt;nodePID&gt;
```

Dump files are created in the same folder where the main Appium script has been executed.
They have the `.heapsnapshot` extension, and can be loaded into the Chrome Inspector for further investigation.

#### Examples
```shell
# Go to the directory where appium is installed via npm. 
cd /home/k/.npm-global/lib/node_modules/appium/
# start appium server
node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 . # don't miss the dot in the end

# Get the PID
ps a | grep node 
# Output: 557795 pts/7    Sl+    0:31 node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 .

# When it's time to dump the heap, issue a SIGUSR2 signal. 557798 is the PID found above.
kill -SIGUSR2 557795
# Then the heap dump file is created /home/k/.npm-global/lib/node_modules/appium/Heap.20200901.185347.557795.0.002.heapsnapshot
```

### Dump file analysis

Read the [Rising Stack article](https://blog.risingstack.com/finding-a-memory-leak-in-node-js/) for more details.

Commit message:

Use smarter commands in dump heap example
As suggested by @mykola-mokhnach,
1. use `cd "$(npm -g root)/appium/"` or `cd "$(npm root)/appium/"` rather than hardcode my example appium directory path.
2. get the node process PID using `pid=$!` rather than `ps a | grep node`, so that the variable `pid` can be referenced later.

docs/en/advanced-concepts/memory-collection.md, after:

## Memory Collection

Since Node v. 12 it is possible to collect the dumps of Appium's memory usage to be analyzed for problems.
This is _extremely_ useful for finding memory leaks.


### Creating a dump file

To create a dump file at any given time, add the following command line parameter to `node` process, which executes the appium.js script:

```
--heapsnapshot-signal=&lt;signal&gt;
```

where `signal` can be one of available custom signals, for example `SIGUSR2`. Then you will be able to

```
kill -SIGUSR2 &lt;nodePID&gt;
```

Dump files are created in the same folder where the main Appium script has been executed.
They have the `.heapsnapshot` extension, and can be loaded into the Chrome Inspector for further investigation.


#### Examples
```shell
# 1. Go to the directory where appium is installed via NPM using one of the two cd command below, depending on appium 
# is installed globally or locally
## if your appium is globally installed via NPM with command "npm install -g appium":
cd "$(npm -g root)/appium/"
## else if your appium is locally installed via NPM:
cd "$(npm root)/appium/"

# 2. Start appium server with heapsnapshot signal
# "&" at the end puts the process at background, so we can continue working on the same terminal
node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 . &

# 3. Get the PID of previous node process
pid=$!

# 4. When it's time to dump the heap, issue a SIGUSR2 signal to the PID got above
kill -SIGUSR2 $pid
# Then the heap dump file is created in current directory
```


### Dump file analysis

Read the [Rising Stack article](https://blog.risingstack.com/finding-a-memory-leak-in-node-js/) for more details.
