docs/en/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.md, before:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
# Get available log types

Get the log for a given log type. Log buffer is reset after each request
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
Set<String> logTypes = driver.manage().logs().getAvailableLogTypes();

```

```python
# Python
log_types = driver.log_types

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.getLogTypes()

// wd example
const logTypes = await driver.logTypes();

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
get_available_log_types

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.logs.available_types

```

```php
# PHP
// TODO PHP sample

```

```csharp
// C#
IReadOnlyCollection<string> logTypes = driver.Manage().Logs.AvailableLogTypes;

```


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | 8.0 to 9.3 | All | All |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | 4.3+ | All | All |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | ?+ | 1.6.4+ | All |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | 10+ | 1.6.0+ | All |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/logging/SessionLogs.html#getLogTypes--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [selenium-python.readthedocs.io](http://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html?highlight=get_log#selenium.webdriver.remote.webdriver.WebDriver.log_types) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/blob/master/lib/commands.js#L441) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [www.rubydoc.info](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib/Appium/Common#get_available_log_types-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Endpoint

`GET /session/:session_id/log/types`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### JSON Parameters

None

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Response

The list of log types (`array<string>`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## See Also

* [JSONWP Specification](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/JsonWireProtocol#sessionsessionidlogtypes)

Commit message:

docs: improve get-log-types

docs/en/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.md, after:

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
# Get available log types

Get available log types as a list of strings
[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## Example Usage

```java
// Java
Set<String> logTypes = driver.manage().logs().getAvailableLogTypes();

```

```python
# Python
log_types = driver.log_types

```

```javascript
// Javascript
// webdriver.io example
driver.getLogTypes()

// wd example
const logTypes = await driver.logTypes();

```

```ruby
# Ruby
# ruby_lib example
get_available_log_types

# ruby_lib_core example
@driver.logs.available_types

```

```php
# PHP
// TODO PHP sample

```

```csharp
// C#
IReadOnlyCollection<string> logTypes = driver.Manage().Logs.AvailableLogTypes;

```


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## Support

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Appium Server

|Platform|Driver|Platform Versions|Appium Version|Driver Version|
|--------|----------------|------|--------------|--------------|
| iOS | [XCUITest](/docs/en/drivers/ios-xcuitest.md) | 9.3+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UIAutomation](/docs/en/drivers/ios-uiautomation.md) | 8.0 to 9.3 | All | All |
| Android | [Espresso](/docs/en/drivers/android-espresso.md) | ?+ | 1.9.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator2](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator2.md) | ?+ | 1.6.0+ | All |
|  | [UiAutomator](/docs/en/drivers/android-uiautomator.md) | 4.3+ | All | All |
| Mac | [Mac](/docs/en/drivers/mac.md) | ?+ | 1.6.4+ | All |
| Windows | [Windows](/docs/en/drivers/windows.md) | 10+ | 1.6.0+ | All |


[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Appium Clients

|Language|Support|Documentation|
|--------|-------|-------------|
|[Java](https://github.com/appium/java-client/releases/latest)| All | [seleniumhq.github.io](https://seleniumhq.github.io/selenium/docs/api/java/org/openqa/selenium/logging/SessionLogs.html#getLogTypes--) |
|[Python](https://github.com/appium/python-client/releases/latest)| All | [selenium-python.readthedocs.io](http://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html?highlight=get_log#selenium.webdriver.remote.webdriver.WebDriver.log_types) |
|[Javascript (WebdriverIO)](http://webdriver.io/index.html)| All |  |
|[Javascript (WD)](https://github.com/admc/wd/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/admc/wd/blob/master/lib/commands.js#L441) |
|[Ruby](https://github.com/appium/ruby_lib/releases/latest)| All | [www.rubydoc.info](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/appium/ruby_lib/Appium/Common#get_available_log_types-instance_method) |
|[PHP](https://github.com/appium/php-client/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/php-client/) |
|[C#](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/releases/latest)| All | [github.com](https://github.com/appium/appium-dotnet-driver/) |

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## HTTP API Specifications

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Endpoint

`GET /session/:session_id/log/types`

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### URL Parameters

|name|description|
|----|-----------|
|session_id|ID of the session to route the command to|

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### JSON Parameters

None

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
### Response

The list of log types (`array<string>`)

[//]: # (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! This is an auto-generated file. Editing for this document happens in /commands-yml/commands/session/logs/get-log-types.yml)
## See Also

* [JSONWP Specification](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/JsonWireProtocol#sessionsessionidlogtypes)
